.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Description

(Instructions: this, and all subsequent sections of text should be removed and filled in as appropriate.)
Provide a detailed description of what this PR does.
What bug does it fix, or what feature does it add?
Is a change of answers expected from this PR?



### Issue(s) addressed

Link the issues to be closed with this PR, whether in this repository, or in another repository.
(Remember, issues should always be created before starting work on a PR branch!)
- fixes #<issue_number>
- fixes noaa-emc/fv3atm/issues/<issue_number>



## Testing

How were these changes tested?
What compilers / HPCs was it tested with?
Are the changes covered by regression tests? (If not, why? Do new tests need to be added?)



## Dependencies

If testing this branch requires non-default branches in other repositories, list them.
Those branches should have matching names (ideally)

Do PRs in upstream repositories need to be merged first?
If so add the "waiting for other repos" label and list the upstream PRs
- waiting on noaa-emc/nems/pull/<pr_number>
- waiting on noaa-emc/fv3atm/pull/<pr_number>

Commit message:

Python 3 bugfix in ccpp-framework, ESMF 8.1.0bs27, cleanup rt_utils.sh, fix RRTMGP regression tests (#201)
* Enable inline post for gnumake builds on hera.gnu, cheyenne.intel, cheyenne.gnu; skip-ci
* Update pull request template, use correct Python interpreter when calling ccpp_prebuild.py in CMakeLists.txt; skip-ci
* tests/rt_utils.sh: remove machine-dependent configuration; skip-ci
* Update ESMF from 8.1.0bs21 to 8.1.0bs27 on almost all machines; skip-ci
* Update .gitmodules and submodule pointer for fv3atm for code review and testing; skip-ci
* Fix RRTMGP regression test setups, temporarily disable RRTMGP tests in tests/rt.conf and tests/rt_gnu.conf
* Updates for docker/ci
* Add note about unit test availability to pull request template
* Update rt.sh configuration for jet, remove tests/rt_rrtmgp.conf, add tests/fv3_conf/compile_slurm.IN_jet

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Description

(Instructions: this, and all subsequent sections of text should be removed and filled in as appropriate.)
Provide a detailed description of what this PR does.
What bug does it fix, or what feature does it add?
Is a change of answers expected from this PR?
Are any library updates included in this PR (modulefiles etc.)?

### Issue(s) addressed

Link the issues to be closed with this PR, whether in this repository, or in another repository.
(Remember, issues should always be created before starting work on a PR branch!)
- fixes #<issue_number>
- fixes noaa-emc/fv3atm/issues/<issue_number>

## Testing

How were these changes tested?
What compilers / HPCs was it tested with?
Are the changes covered by regression tests? (If not, why? Do new tests need to be added?)
Have regression tests and unit tests (utests) been run? On which platforms and with which compilers? (Note that unit tests can only be run on tier-1 platforms)

## Dependencies

If testing this branch requires non-default branches in other repositories, list them.
Those branches should have matching names (ideally)

Do PRs in upstream repositories need to be merged first?
If so add the "waiting for other repos" label and list the upstream PRs
- waiting on noaa-emc/nems/pull/<pr_number>
- waiting on noaa-emc/fv3atm/pull/<pr_number>
